<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Something Wicked This Way Comes</title>
    <meta name="DC.Title" content="Something Wicked This Way Comes"/>
    <meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/><link href="../stylesheet1.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><style type="text/css">
		@page { margin-bottom: 5.000000pt; margin-top: 5.000000pt; }</style></head>
  <body class="calibre10">
    <div class="calibre11">
      <h1 class="calibre12">Something Wicked This Way Comes</h1>
    </div>
    <div class="calibre11">
      <p class="calibre11">Something Wicked This Way Comes</p>
      <p class="calibre11">PROLOGUE</p>
      <p class="calibre11"> </p>
      <p class="calibre11">First of all, it was October, a rare month for boys. Not that all months aren't rare. But there be bad abd good, as the pirates say. Take September, a bad month: schoool begins. Consider August, a good month: school hasn't begun yet. July, well, July's really fine: there's no chance in the world for school. June, no doubting it, June's best of all, for the school doors spring wide and September's a billion years away.</p>
      <p class="calibre11">    But you take October, now. School's been on a month and you're riding easier in the reins, jogging along. You got time to think of the garbage you'll dump on old man Prickett's porch, or the hairyape costume you'll wear to the YMCA the last night of the month. And if it's around October twentieth and everything smokysmelling and the sky orange and ash grey at twilight, it seems Hallowe'en will never come in a fall of broomsticks and a soft flap of bedsheets around corners.</p>
      <p class="calibre11">    But one strange wild dark long year, Hallowe'en came early.</p>
      <p class="calibre11">    One year Hallowe'en came on October 24, three hours after 
    
    
     
      midnight
     
    
    
     .</p>
      <p class="calibre11">    At that time, James Nightshade of 
    
    
     
      
       97 Oak Street
      
     
    
    
      was thirteen years, eleven months, twentythree days old. Next door, William Halloway was thirteen years, eleven months and twentyfour days old. Both touched toward fourteen; it almost trembled in their hands.</p>
      <p class="calibre11">    And that was the October week when they grew up overnight, and were never so young any more. . .</p>
      <p class="calibre11"> </p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
